." Manpage for titania.
." Contact holger.seelig@yahoo.de to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "31 January 2017" "Version 2.0.1" "x3dtidy man page"
.SH NAME

        titania - Titania X3D Editor

.SH SYNOPSIS

        titania [OPTIONS] [FILE]

.SH DESCRIPTION

        Titania is a X3D/VRML editor and browser for the Linux
        operating system. The goal is a full standard compliant X3D
        browser for future releases of Ubuntu. For now, Titania fully
        supports the Moving Worlds specification for VRML 2.0 and
        already many parts of the X3D specification.

        It can be used as a simple 3D viewer for .x3d files, as high
        quality 3D animation rendering engine, for advanced science
        simulations, live data visualization, or as easy to use
        gaming engine.

        Furthermore Titania can be used as X3D converter and beautifier
        for various file formats from the command line. It can format
        or convert a file to standard output or to your hard disk.

        Titania reads an X3D file and writes an indented, reformatted
        file. When no output file is specified the output is printed
        to stdout. Use the --style option to specify the desired
        output style.

.SH OPTIONS

General Options

        -h, --help
               Prints help options.

Image Options

        -i FILENAME, --export-image=FILENAME
               Specify the filename for image export.  If it already
               exists, the file will be overwritten without asking.
               Supported image file formats are PNG, JPG, TIFF,
               and BMP.

        -w WIDTH, --width=WIDTH
               Width of the image in pixels. If WIDTH is -1 the
               maximum possible number of pixels is used for width.

        -h HEIGHT, --height=HEIGHT
               Height of the image in pixels. If HEIGHT is -1 the
               maximum possible number of pixels is used for height.

        -c, --alpha-channel
               Set whether the image has an alpha channel.

        -a SAMPLES, --antialiasing=SAMPLES
               Set image antialiasing samples. If SAMPLES is -1 the
               maximum possible number of samples are used.

        -f, --fixed-pipeline
               Set whether fixed pipeline should be used or shader pipeline.

Export Options

        -e FILENAME, --export=FILENAME
               The output is saved to FILENAME. If '-' or only a suffix
               like '.x3d' is given the output goes to STDOUT.

        -s MODE, --style=MODE
               MODE can be 'smallest', 'small ', 'compact', or
               'nicest', nicest is the default mode.

        -n, --infer
               Infer profile and components.

        -m, --remove-metadata
               Set whether to export metadata.

List Options

        -l LIST, --list=profiles|components|nodes|fields
               Get a list of all supported profiles, components, nodes
               or fields. The nodes list and the fields list are
               provided in key file format.

.SH KNOWN FILE FORMATS

Accepted input file formats are:

        .x3d         X3D XML Encoding
        .x3dz        X3D XML Encoding (Gzip)
        .x3dj        X3D JSON Encoding
        .x3dv        X3D Classic VRML Encoding
        .x3dvz       X3D Classic VRML Encoding (Gzip)
        .wrl         VRML Encoding
        .wrz         VRML Encoding (Gzip)
        .gltf        GL Transmission Format File 2.0
        .obj         Alias Wavefront OBJ File Format
        .3ds         Autodesk 3DS File Format
        .pdf         Portable Document Format (optional)
        .svg         Scalable Vector Grafics
        .svgz        Scalable Vector Grafics (Gzip)

        PDF file format is optional and available if Inkscape is
        installed. 

Accepted output file formats are:

        .x3d         X3D XML Encoding
        .x3dz        X3D XML Encoding (Gzip)
        .x3dj        X3D JSON Encoding
        .x3dv        X3D Classic VRML Encoding
        .x3dvz       X3D Classic VRML Encoding (Gzip)

        Gzip encoding is available if exported to file. 

.SH EXAMPLES

General Examples

        titania scene.x3d
                Open scene.x3d in browser.

Export Examples

        titania --style=compact input.x3d --export=-
                Formats input.x3d's contents in compact style mode to
                standard output.

        titania input.x3dv --export=beautified.x3dv
                Formats input.x3dv's contents and saves the output in
                beautified.x3dv.

        titania input.3ds --export=output.x3dj
                Converts input.3ds's contents and saves the output in
                output.x3dj.

.SH COPYRIGHT

        Copyright © 2010 Holger Seelig <holger.seelig@yahoo.de>.

        License GPLv3+:
        GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
        This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute
        it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
