." Manpage for x3dtidy.
." Contact holger.seelig@yahoo.de to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "19 January 2017" "Version 2.0" "x3dtidy man page"
.SH NAME
       x3dtidy - X3D/VRML beautifier and converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
       x3dtidy [OPTIONS] FILE [OUTFILE]

.SH DESCRIPTION
       Format or convert FILE to standard output or to OUTFILE.

       x3dtidy reads an X3D file and writes an indented, reformatted file.
       When no output file is specified the output is printed to stdout.
       Use the --style option to specify the desired output style.

.SH OPTIONS
       -c, --compact
              output in compact style

       -h, --help
              prints usage

       -s=mode, --style=mode
              mode can be 'smallest', 'small ', 'compact', or 'nicest'
              nicest is the default mode

.SH KNOWN FILE FORMATS
Accepted input file formats are:

       .x3d         X3D XML Encoding
       .x3dz        X3D XML Encoding
       .x3dv        X3D Classic VRML Encoding
       .x3dvz       X3D Classic VRML Encoding"
       .json        X3D JSON Encoding
       .wrl         VRML Encoding
       .wrz         VRML Encoding
       .obj         Alias Wavefront OBJ File Format
       .3ds         Autodesk 3DS File Format
       .svg         Scalable Vector Grafics
       .svgz        Scalable Vector Grafics

Accepted output file formats are:

       .x3d         X3D XML Encoding
       .x3dv        X3D Classic VRML Encoding
       .json        X3D JSON Encoding

.SH EXAMPLES
       x3dtidy --style=compact input.x3d
              Formats input.x3d's contents in compact style mode to
              standard output.

       x3dtidy input.x3dv beautified.x3dv
              Formats input.x3dv's contents and saves the output in
              beautified.x3dv.

       x3dtidy input.3ds output.json
              Converts input.3ds's contents and saves the output in
              output.json.

.SH COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2010 Holger Seelig.  License GPLv3+:
       GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
       There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
