=head1 NAME

natsort - Natural Sorting utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<natsort> [I<OPTION>..]

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h, --help>

Show a little help screen and exit

=item B<-V, --version>

Show version information and exit

=item B<-n, --no-natural-order>

Disable natural order

=item B<-i, --case-insensitive>

Ignore case. Will fold strings to uppercase before comparing. If two strings
evaluate the same with this option, the result of case-sensitive comparison will
be returned, to provide a fixed order.

=item B<-f, --dot-first>

Put items starting with a dot first. (By default, they end up after items
starting with a digit but before those starting with a letter.)

=item B<-m, --dot-mixed>

Treat items starting with a dots as if they did not, i.e. skip the leading dot.

=item B<-I, --ignore-spunct>

Ignore all spaces and punctuations characters (according to iswspace(3) and
iswpunct(3)).

=item B<-r, --reverse>

Reverse the result of comparisons.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<natsort> is a small tool to sort a list of lines, using natural sort order.
It reads lines to sort from its standard input and writes them sorted on
standard output.

=head2 What is natural order?

Most sorting utility perform a simple ASCII comparison, with works as computers
might expect things, but not so much our human selves; Because when numbers are
involed, e.g. with "test15" and "test2" we usually want to see "test2" before
"test15" even though, taken character by character, 1 does come before 2.

There's been plenty of talk about this, the point being: natural order is what
people will mostly (if not always) expect, but not what they always get.

natsort will perform natural sort order, and in case two numbers evaluate to the
same value but aren't the same (i.e. one has (more) leading zeros, e.g. 02 vs
002) the one with less leading zeros will come first.

Unfortunately things aren't so simple as to simple treat numbers differently,
because people might expect ordering based on their locale, so that characters
with accents are placed alongside their accent-free counterparts and such.

This will not happen with natsort, because its comparison isn't locale based. It
performs simple character comparisons, but with support for natural order and a
few more options (e.g. case sensitivity).

B<natsort> is a simple example of an implementation of natural sort order. If
you want to read more about how it works and why it came about, see
L<http://jjacky.com/2013-03-22-natural-sort-order-in-c>

=head1 BUGS

They're probably crawling somewhere in there... if you happen to catch one (or
more), report it and I'll do my best to squash it.

=head1 REPOSITORY

You can find the latest source code of B<natsort> as well as report bugs and/or
suggest features on its GitHub repository, available at
L<https://github.com/jjk-jacky/natsort>

=head1 AUTHOR

=over

=item Olivier Brunel <i.am.jack.mail AT gmail DOT com>

=back

